Intro - 
  Basics of cc, 
  evolution of cc
define cc
list the benifits ad risk fo cc
identify the various types of cloud models and services
illustrate the real-worl app of cloud computing



Histroy of Cloud Computing
->Earlier terms of Cloud 
Centralised Computing - A computing arch where all the processing is performed on a central server
Grid Computing - A group of compyters physically connected to perform dedicated tasks or solve a complex program 
Distributed Computing - A model that allows resource sharing among multiple computers to improve efficiency and performance 
On- demand Computing - A model in which computing resources are made available on demand to the user as and when they are needed.
Hosting - A service through which storage and computing resources are provided to a individual or an organization to host data for services
Application service provider (ASP) - IA company that delivers application funcationality and associated services using a rental or usage based transcation pricing model 



1950 - 1960 - Mainframe Computing - central computing with dumb is introduced 
1960 - 1980 - Internet Advancements -> Arpanet TCP/ Ip & compuserve
1970 - First Virtual machine not in cloud is evloved 
1990 - Virtual privte networks ( Telecom offers VPN S )
1990 - The cloud -> Saw numeros cloud computing advances and the term cloud begins to be used 
1999 - Salesforce.com - > The first software as a service was introduced.
2006 - Amazon.com, Goodle Docs -> Amazon launched their EC2 internet as a service as beta. Goodgle Docs introduced 
2008 - MS Azure Azure internet as server was annonced.
Now - MS azure, Amazon, Google, IBm, Sales force 

Defination of CC - > On demend computing resources, Deliving over the internet 
And it is a computing service that is traditionally carried out locaaly on premises 
now performed remotely across the internet 

Defin 0> NIST or NIST -> A model that enables ubiquitous and convenient on-demand network access to a shared pool of configuravke computing resources (for eg, Networks, servers, Storage, Application, and services) 
that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction.


5 essensial characteristec -> 3 service model, 4 deployment model 

Charaterastics of CC:

Benefits of Cloud Computing : 
1. Coft - effective -> Pay-as-you-go-pricing, Pay only for the resources you use, Potential to lower the cost, No need of capital expenditure to get started 
2. Scalable -> Veritcal scallling ( adds a faster CPU , Adds memory ) , Horizontal Scalling ( Adding more servers) 
3. Elastic -> Add ( Addes resources when application is heavily used) or remove (Remove unnecessary resources when unnecessary) resources 
4. Business Continuity -> Buidling and deploying applications, It provides fast access to resources or applications you or your company need, Maintenance is done, No more software patching, hardware setup, upgrades,
and It management required.
5. Reliable - Data is save, Azure provides ( Data backups, Disaster recovery, Data replication). 
6. Secure -> Physical and digital security ( ensures both).
7. Metered -> pay only for what you use. (No need to IT experts to explains cost ) 


Risks of Cloud Computing:
1. Placing your trust in the cloud provider -> When you depend on a cloud service for a business critical task, U put the business in hand of the cloud vendor and quality of their work 
( Cloud service -> cirtical task -> Cloud vendor ) 
Eg -> Data -> Amazon or Azure ( storing all our data in service) -> NO service ( issue on service ) -> No access (Issue to fetch the data ) 
2. Service level Agreement -> Agreement between you and provider ( we hv to ensure if cloud provider is down, What they will provide you in return as it affect our busniess time )
3. Slow data acess -> ( U hv data in cloud and want to move it another data center or download locally, what if it is slow. So ensure that it fast as our internet speed t the cloud connection)
4. Legal or regulator complaints -> eg, financial or gvt entities cannot store data anywhere in the cloud. So they have to keep in mind to regulation and law associated with data should be considered.) 
eg -> (U hv company and hvaing health data, Employee data, Financial data, Credit card data regulated by government -> You will have to take into special consideration which cloud provider you use and wher they are storing our data.
5. Loss of potential or loss of customization or control - Eg, if you run your application locally, then you can customize it as you want. Assuming you have source code and the ability to perform the customization.
but when you deploy the same application in cloud, then the cloud provider is going to share access to that single application to everyone and you might not have as much control and potential to customize the application
as you would have on an on premise application.
6. Potential for unknown Costs- > Eg , One can know the cost of their own servers, storage, and software application if eveyrthing is run locally. What in cloud computing if you store and used more servers, storage and 
end up with more cost in bill. So Cost uptimation is something that you should keep in mind. 




Types of cloud computing -> 3 types
1. Public cloud,
2. Private Cloud,
3. Hybrid Cloud.

Public cloud - > Owned by cloud service provider, and also known as Hosting provider.
It provides Resources and services to multiple organization and users who connect to the cloud service via a secure network connection.
Typically over the internet.
Characteristics : 
Multiple end users -> Public cloud modes may make their resources available to multiple organization, 
Public access -> Public cloud provide access to the public.
Availbility -> Most common cloud type deployment model.
Connectivity -> Users and organizations are typically connected to the pubic cloud over the internet using a web browser.
Skills-> Public cloud do not required deep technical knwlege to set up and use.
Example: 
Businesses can use multiple public cloud service provider companies of varying scale.  Eg - MS Azure is public cloud provider.


Private Cloud -> Is owned and operated by the organization that used it. 
They creaye a cloud environment in their own data center and 
Provides self-service access to the computing resources to internal users ( Organization resources ).
Organization remains the owner entirely responsible for the operation of the services they provide.
Characteristics:
Ownership -> The owner and the user of the cloud serivces are the same.
Hardware -> The owner is the entirely responsible for the purchase maintenance and management of the cloud hardware.
Users -? A private cloud operates only within one organization and cloud computing resources are used exclusively by a single business or organization.
Connectivity -> A connection to the private cloud is typically over a private network that is highly secure.
Private access -> A private cloud doesnt give access to the public.
Skills -> Deep technical knowledge is required to set up, manage and maintain the private cloud.

Hybrid Cloud -> Combines both public and private cloud. Allows users to run applications in the cloud or on-premise.
Charateristics:
Hybrid resource location -> Specific resources run or are used in a public cloud and others run or are used in a private cloud.
Similar to public cloud in efficiency and cost -> Hybrid cloud models allow an organization to leverage some of the benefits of cost efficiency and scale that are available with a public cloud model.
Organization control and management -> Organization retain management control in private clouds.
Skills -> Technical skills are required to maintain the private cloud and ensure the both cloud models can operate together.
Example: Hosting a website in public cloud and linking it to a highly secure database hosted in a private cloud. 


Comparison of cloud models: 
Public cloud -> No CapEx, High agility, Consumption-based model.
Private -> High control, Security.
Hybrid cloud -> Provision for flexibility, Complaince, as required.


Types of cloud services:
3 types -> 
IAAS -> Infrastructure as a service.
PAAS -> Platform as a service.
SAAS -> software as a service.

Iaas:
Most basic category of cloud computing services.
With Iaas you can rent IT infrastructure servers, Like Virtual machine(VMs), Storage, Networks, and Operating systems 
It's an instant computing infrastructure provisioned and managed over the internet. 

Paas:
Provides an environment for Building, Testing and Deploying of software application.
Goals of Paas is to help create an applicatio as quickly as possible without having to focusing on managing the infrastructure.
Common usage Scenarios -> Provides a framework for developers to develop or customiza cloud-based applications. 
Similar to the way you create a mc excel MAcro. Paas Lets developers create applications using built in software components, 
Features: Reduces the amount of coding, Scalability, High availability, Multi-tenant capability.
Paas provides abaytics or business intelligence are the tools provided as a service with pasas that allows organizations to analyze and mine their data.
They can find insights and patterns and predict outcomes including Forecasting, Product designs and inverstment returns. 


Saas:
Centrally hosted and managed for the end customer.
Allows user to connect to and use cloud-based apps over the internet.
Common usage scenario:
Email, calenders, office tools (MS office 365), Skype, MS Dynamics CRM online.

Comparison of Cloud services:
Iaas -> Is the most flexible cloud service. 
Provide control to configure and manage the hardware running ur application.
Requires more use management.
Requires users to manage the OS, data and applications.
Paas -> Productivity -> User is focuses only on applciation developement (All platform management is handled by the cloud provider).
Enables working with distributed teams as the platform is accessed over the internet and can be made globally.
Requiures less user management.
The cloud provider is managing the cloud operating system and user is responsible for the application and data they run and store.
Saas -> Pas as you go pricing model.They use on a subscription model. Typically monthly or yearly regardless of how much they use the software ( Enables payment for software on a subscription model).
Requires the least user management. 
Requires cloud provider to manage everything.

Management: 
Traditions on-permise: 
you manage -> 
Application
Data
Runtime
Middleware
Operating system
Virtualization
Servers
Storage
Networking 

Iaas:
you manage -> 
Application
Data
Runtime
Middleware
Operating system

Managed by Vendor ->
Virtualization
Servers
Storage
Networking 

Paas:
you manage -> 
Application
Data

Managed by Vendor ->
Runtime
Middleware
Operating system
Virtualization
Servers
Storage
Networking 

Saas:
Managed by Vendor -> 
Application
Data
Runtime
Middleware
Operating system
Virtualization
Servers
Storage
Networking 

Cloud Computing in Action:
On demand and scalable high performace compute Virtual machines for analysis and simulation.
Cloud- designed workstation  hosted on cloud accessible from any location.
The research includes remote data collection, analysis, modeling and sharing.
Extracting actionalble insights from IoT data.
Machines have been providing data for quite a while. New machines will doubtlessly be emitting even more data. having data is good but data is simply raw matierals having insights using the data through analysis guides you actions.

Operationala costs: 
Cloud computing can help finances by: 
-> Providing cost-effective subsction
-> Reduce infrastructure and upgrade costs
-> Enabling faster releases with automatic upgrades.
-> Improving usability  of services including reporting, analytics and predictive analysis using AI and MI servies in cloud.
-> Opportunities for process improvement and agility,faster reporting and shorter planning cycles.
-> Enabling growth 
-> Supporitng business transformation upgrading finance systems and processes with the latest available on demand resources in the cloud.
